PLATONIC IDEAL DOSSIER
The Good Buy — Declared 1940 Edition
Review build: September 2026


WHAT THE DOSSIER IS

The dossier is the long-form buying guide behind the Platonic Ideal storefront.
The site gives a reader a clear place to browse and buy. The dossier earns the
recommendation: it names the exact product, states the job it is for, shows the
tradeoff, carries the care and service path, and makes the sources easy to check.

The promise is practical: stop researching, buy with a clear boundary, and keep
the product useful longer. A recommendation is a decision with a clear reason,
not a decorative list of links.


THE CURRENT EDITION

The working CSV contains 48 records marked DECLARED. Earlier notes refer to 46;
this edition carries all 48 so every declared item has a visible place in the
book. The first four follow the proof sequence: Drill, Frying Pan, Hammer, and
Screwdriver. The remaining categories follow alphabetically.

The default PDF is 157 pages:

  01  Cover
  02  Full-page Plato quotation and large portrait with both eyes visible
  03  Alphabetical field index with category name and spread page number
  04  Six tests before a declaration, condensed to one page
  05–148  48 product recommendations, three pages each
        decision + large plate / fit or use + candidate pressure /
        care + parts + service + stop conditions
  149–152  Quick comparison covering every recommendation
  153–155  Product sources and update links
  156  Image, rights, and reader-label glossary
  157  A reader checklist for buying and keeping it working

Build the current edition with:

  python3 scripts/build-dossier-delta.py

The PDF is written to:

  output/pdf/platonic-ideal-dossier-declared-1940.pdf

The supplied twenty-page proof remains available for visual comparison:

  python3 scripts/build-dossier-delta.py --proof \
    --output output/pdf/platonic-ideal-dossier-1940-20-page-proof.pdf

An older full-register builder is retained only as an archived comparison:

  python3 scripts/build-dossier-delta.py --legacy-full \
    --output output/pdf/platonic-ideal-dossier-full-review.pdf


THE 1940 DESIGN RULE

The declared edition uses the same page anatomy as the Platonic Ideal 1940 proof:
white stock, inset black page rule, condensed gothic display type, serif reading
text, vermilion rules and registration marks, open ruled tables, red footer rule,
and black folio tab. Product images are large and dispersed so the physical
judgment has room to breathe.

The live site may keep its Greek icon background. Dossier product art does not:
every product plate uses clean warm-ivory paper and removes the Greek icon,
laurel, marble slab, halo, pedestal, and decorative panel from behind the object.
The wrench, extension cord, step ladder, and Windsor chair received dedicated
clean industrial illustrations, and the remaining recommendations now use newly
generated source-referenced multi-view illustrations rather than storefront hero
backgrounds. Each plate has a large object view and separate elevation/detail
views with registration detail.


WHAT ONE RECOMMENDATION CARRIES

DECISION
  The exact model and variant, the job it earns, a direct buy statement, the
  decisive dimensions or material facts, and the visible trade.

FIT / USE
  A plain explanation of when the product fits, what it asks of the user, and
  where a credible alternative changes the decision. Every declared chapter has
  a dedicated action plate showing the object doing its primary job, with its
  working surface, load, hands, or setting visible.

OWNERSHIP
  A four-step care routine, a four-part Parts to Watch callout rail, routine wear,
  damage that needs inspection, the point where use should stop, parts and
  service implications, and a direct manual, maker, or seller link.

PRODUCT SOURCES
  The model record, source role, identity status, rights state, check date, and
  update path are collected at the back. Essential specs and care guidance stay
  on the product spread, with the source links there when you want to verify a
  detail.


THE SIX TESTS

FIT       Will it do the everyday job?
FORM      What is holding it together?
RECOVERY  What can be fixed or renewed?
SUPPLY    Can the important parts be obtained?
OWNERSHIP What will it ask of you after checkout?
VALUE     What does the upgrade actually buy?

A product clears a declaration when the category Form, use boundary, ownership
path, and evidence state support one model better than the available field. If
the answer changes with fit, installation, safety, region, or service, the page
states that boundary instead of hiding it.


HOW TO READ THE IMAGES

The product plates are original editorial interpretations. They make silhouette,
material, construction, and service-relevant geometry easier to inspect; they do
not prove an exact factory finish or replace a maker's manual. The wrench plate,
for example, uses the verified Bahco 8071 geometry as its reference and shows a
large three-quarter view, side elevation, jaw-and-worm detail, and handle end.

The image prompts are shipped in:

  docs/dossier-review/assets/editorial/IMAGE_PROMPTS.txt

Creative Commons and image-use notes are kept in the back-of-book glossary so
the product pages can stay focused on the decision. The Plato portrait and quote
follow the same rule: the portrait is original editorial art, while the quote is
linked to a public-domain Benjamin Jowett translation of Republic VI, 507b.


WHY IT HAS MORE VALUE THAN THE SITE

A storefront card must be quick. A dossier chapter can answer the questions a
card cannot: which dimension matters, which part wears first, whether the source
supports the claim, what to inspect on a used example, what is recoverable, and
what the owner should do next. The dossier is built to be checked and updated,
so a changed price, model, part, or service path reopens a clear page rather than
forcing the reader to start the research from zero.


EDITORIAL LIMITS

The source links are the authority for exact specification, current price,
stock, fit, safety, and regional service. The dossier carries the usable
implication and records the source role. It does not claim independent laboratory
testing where none has been done. Dedicated action scenes are illustrations, not
safety instructions. Read the maker's manual before use.
